Loot boxes are everywhere. If you regularly play video games, chances are that you’ve seen them or other forms of microtransactions before. Loot boxes in video games share harmful traits with gambling. Loot boxes are purchasable digital boxes that contain virtual items that can be used in your game. Loot boxes are like a slot machine. You spend some money with the hopes of winning something good. Edwin Hong of the Western State Law Review explains, “The internet serves as an easy medium for gambling, drastically contributing to gambling problems.” A study done by Juniper Research concluded that loot boxes and skins gambling generated nearly $30 billion in 2018 with estimates reaching $50 billion by 2022. The most infamous example of loot boxes is in the game Star Wars Battlefront 2. The game’s progression system relied heavily on loot boxes. Players can acquire items from loot boxes called Star Cards. These Star Cards can boost your character and make you more powerful. Loot boxes can be earned in the game by earning crystals. but it takes a lot of time to earn them. If you’re not up for hours of grinding, you can also purchase these crystals. This is problematic because players that have lots of money to spend on these loot boxes can pay their way to success putting other players at a disadvantage. Business tactics like this can take advantage of vulnerable people that suffer from gaming disorder. Gaming disorder, as well as gambling disorder, are listed as non-substance related addictions in the International Classification of Diseases. According to Matthew McCaffrey, a business professor at the Alliance Manchester Business School, lawmakers across the world are beginning to propose restrictions on loot boxes in games. In his journal entry for the Santa Clara Law Review, author David J. Castillo tells of a state senator in Washington. State senator, Kevin Ranker proposed a bill to determine if loot boxes are gambling, that specifically targets children. One of the goals of the bill is to determine if the games and apps that use these loot boxes are considered gambling under Washington law. The efforts of Senator Ranker and many other politicians across the world make the future of loot boxes uncertain. The controversy surrounding loot boxes begins a new era of financial regulations in the gaming community
